# DataFest-UofT-2022
This repo is for my award-winning group project of [DataFest@UofT 2022](https://www.statistics.utoronto.ca/news/u-t-students-go-win-data-competition-interactive-video-game-risk-youth). The event is an international data analysis and statistics competition, sponsored by the *American Statistical Association* (ASA). At the event, 25 undergraduate student teams competed to analyze data on the play2PREVENT game. The video game focuses on gaining insight into adolescent behavior and identifying at-risk youth. Our goal of the project is to investigate the engagement level of participants. Our research question is to understand the probability of completion the game from a survival analysis perspective. You may find our final results in our write-up and the final presentation (.pdf).

I was the group leader who designed survival framework for the entire project. We extracted key variables from 133 variables with 100M+ records using **Principal Component Analysis** and identified 10 significant variables with **survival random forest** and **proportional-hazards model**.  The attached JupyterHub Notebook contains the Python codes to clean the original data (not publicly available) using Pandas and construct our **survival Cox Proportional-hazards Model** and **Survival Random Forest**. Our project has been awarded as **the Best Statistical Analysis Award** among 25 undergraduate student teams. 

Survival Random Forest is an ensemble tree method for analysis of survival data. We introduced all variables
from PCA and player’s age to estimate the probability of completing the game above the threshold. Event though
the mean predictive probability is 50% as expected, individual cases vary much. We also provide a list of the most important variables: player’s current “know”, “priority”, “people”, “refusal” skill level, age and the amount of time watched for animation. 

We fitted a Cox Proportional-hazards Model to provide estimates of the effects of the covariates on the probability of the event completion. The model measures the association between the playing time of participants and whether the event is complete. We obtained Hazard Ratio (HR), the proportion of the completion rate among groups. Our results show that the previous points at this level of the game, age, player's current skill level have significant positive effects on event completions. 
